---
title: "Colemak"
layout: 'post'
author: bo
---

About a year ago I found out about the [Colemak](http://colemak.com)
keyboard layout. This is what it looks like:

![image](http://colemak.com/wiki/images/8/80/Colemak_layout_2.png)

I was instantly intrigued and was drawn to a few key features:

-   Easy to learn
-   Caps lock is replaced with backspace (making backspace closer to
    fingers and getting rid of the useless caps lock)
-   Obvious health benefits (just look how much your fingers need to
    move when using QWERTY [here](http://colemak.com/Compare))
-   It’s not QWERTY, which was designed [without any consideration to
    ergonomic or efficiency
    aspects](http://colemak.com/FAQ#What.27s_wrong_with_the_QWERTY_layout.3F).

Long story short: it took me a few tries to commit to learning it (3
tries over year in fact). Eventually I went cold turkey for a week and
haven’t looked back. Typing is more comfortable and faster already.

Getting Colemak on OS X is as simple as following [the simple
Installation instructions](http://colemak.com/Mac). The instructions
seem out of date when it comes to re-mapping caps lock to backspace. It
is as simple as downloading
[PCKeyboardHack](http://www.pqrs.org/tekezo/macosx/keyremap4macbook/extra.html),
installing it, rebooting, and choosing the option in its preference pane
to remap caps lock to delete (key code 51).

### Snow Leopard

Colemak itself works fine under Snow Leopard, however the PCKeyboardHack
utility does not work, because it is hardcoded to only load the kernel
driver if it recognises the OS version. Luckily it is open source, and I
was able to import the Mercurial project into a
[GitHub](http://github.com)
[project](http://github.com/bjeanes/PCKeyboardHack), modify it, and
build a version that works fine on Snow Leopard.

### Dead Keys that Apple uses on the QWERTY layout

One thing I loved about the QWERTY layout on OS X was the sensible dead
key and alternate character behaviours, allowing users to quickly and
logically input characters such as: , é, ¡, ¿, », ‡, °, etc. The
version of Colemak, for one reason or another, moved or simply didn’t
have many of these shortcuts.

So, I created my own Colemak layout bundle that moves the dead key
positions to preserve the associations with the character position
changes from QWERTY to Colemak. This means, for example,  can be
created by pressing ⌥⇧K on either keyboard layout (where K is the key
that outputs K, not the key that physically says K on it).

My version of the Colemak bundle is available on [my
GitHub](http://github.com/bjeanes/colemak) and a direct download to a
zip file is available
[here](http://cloud.github.com/downloads/bjeanes/colemak/ColemakKeyboardLayouts.bundle.zip).
Simply put the .bundle file in your `~/Library/Keyboard Layouts`
directory. The bundle includes both the original keyboard layout and my
re-created one so you can switch between them if you need both, for any
reason.
