+++
aliases = ["2010/my-future", "2010/08/my-future"]
date = 2010-08-19T06:40:45Z
slug = "my-future"
title = "My Future"
updated = 2011-08-28T20:48:04Z
+++

## Mocra

Two weeks ago, Dr Nic informed me, and my coworkers, that [he had
accepted a job with
EngineYard](http://drnicwilliams.com/2010/08/04/coming-to-america/) and
was moving to San Francisco within the month. Unfortunately, a
consequence of Nic’s wonderful opportunity is that he had to fire us all
and shutdown Mocra.

Of course, he broke the news to us in a more humane way, and even
encouraged me to take on the Mocra name and start a new company to
continue on without him. I haven’t ruled it out yet, but I am taking
this change as an opportunity to consider moving on in my career and
having some new experiences with fresh and inspiring people.

Over the last two years at Mocra, I’ve helped run the business, managed
the clients, and written awesome code, as well as worked on a slew of
[open source contributions and projects](http://github.com/bjeanes),
such as [ghost](http://github.com/bjeanes/ghost).

## Possibilities

A few opportunities and offers have presented themselves already, even
without having put myself out there, as I’m now trying. Some of them
have been quite tempting, and I’ve been exploring them, but some have
been less so.

After reading [No more yes. It’s either HELL YEAH! or
no](http://sivers.org/hellyeah), I’ve decided that I want to try to find
a job that’s will make me say "HELL
YEAH!" and go for it.

If you have a position or an endeavour that you think I might be right
for, please get in contact; I’d love to have a chat about the company,
idea, or your processes, and how we might be able to help each other.

I am looking for work starting from the beginning of September. My
long-term goal is to move out of Brisbane, so relocating is an option
I’d enthusiastically pursue. For a number of reasons, however, I’m tied
to Brisbane until about the end of the year.

Therefore, I’d love to find a company that can accommodate me as a
contractor for the few months until my partner and I are in a position
to move out of Brisbane, at which point I’d be eager to come on as a
full-timer. I am more than happy to come work on-site out of Brisbane
before the New Year for small stints, though.

If you want to know more, I’ll be making my
[About](http://bjeanes.com/pages/about) page more relevant to my skills,
experiences, and interests over the next day or so. In the mean time,
feel free to [email me](me@bjeanes.com) or call me on
[skype](skype://bojeanes?userinfo) or +61412639224 to start a
conversation.
